\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename bluetui.info
@settitle bluetui Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 0.8.1
@set UPDATED 2026-06-24

@copying
This manual is for bluetui (version @value{VERSION}), a dual-mode command-line
and terminal-UI tool for managing Bluetooth on Linux.

Copyright @copyright{} 2026 Mohamed Hammad & Spacecraft Software.

@quotation
This document is licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-SA-4.0).
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory System administration
@direntry
* bluetui: (bluetui).      Manage Bluetooth on Linux (CLI + TUI).
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title bluetui
@subtitle Manage Bluetooth on Linux --- @value{VERSION}
@author Mohamed Hammad
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top bluetui

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::            What bluetui is.
* Invocation::          Running the TUI and the CLI.
* Global Options::      Flags shared by every command.
* Commands::            The noun-verb command tree.
* Output and Errors::   JSON envelope, exit codes, structured errors.
* Configuration::       The config file, keybindings, and theme.
* Key Bindings::        Interactive TUI keys.
* Attribution::         Maintainer and credits.
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@command{bluetui} manages Bluetooth adapters and devices on Linux through the
BlueZ D-Bus service. It is @dfn{dual-mode}:

@itemize @bullet
@item
With @emph{no subcommand} and an interactive terminal, it launches a full-screen
terminal user interface (TUI).
@item
With a @emph{noun-verb subcommand}, it behaves as a structured, scriptable
command-line interface (CLI) whose output is designed for shells and AI agents.
@end itemize

@node Invocation
@chapter Invocation

@example
bluetui [GLOBAL OPTIONS] [COMMAND ...]
@end example

Running @command{bluetui} with no command on an interactive terminal starts the
TUI.  In a pipe, or when the environment variable @env{AI_AGENT} (or
@env{AGENT}/@env{CI}) is set, output defaults to machine-readable JSON and the
TUI does not start.

@node Global Options
@chapter Global Options

These flags are accepted by the bare invocation and by every subcommand:

@table @option
@item --json
Shortcut for @option{--format json}.
@item --format @var{fmt}
One of @code{json}, @code{jsonl}, @code{yaml}, @code{csv}, @code{explore}.
@item --fields @var{a,b,...}
Restrict output records to the listed fields.
@item --dry-run
Emit an action plan instead of performing side effects.
@item --verbose, -v
Increase diagnostic output on stderr.
@item --quiet, -q
Suppress non-error stderr output.
@item --no-color
Disable ANSI color.
@item --color @var{when}
@code{auto}, @code{always}, or @code{never}.
@item --absolute-time
Render absolute UTC timestamps in human mode.
@item --print0, -0
Use NUL record separators for filename-safe piping.
@item --yes, --force
Skip interactive confirmation in non-TTY mode.
@item --config-path @var{path}
Use an explicit configuration file.
@item --help, -h
Print help (with a maintainer/URL footer).
@item --version
Print the version and attribution.
@end table

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

Phase 1 provides read-only data commands plus introspection.  Mutating verbs
(connect, pair, trust, power, scan, rename, favorite) and an MCP server are
planned for later phases.

@table @code
@item bluetui adapter list
List all Bluetooth adapters (controllers).
@item bluetui adapter get @var{name}
Show one adapter (for example @code{hci0}) including its devices.
@item bluetui device list [--adapter @var{name}]
List devices, optionally scoped to a single adapter.
@item bluetui device get @var{address}
Show one device by address (@code{AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF}).
@item bluetui schema [@var{noun} [@var{verb}]]
Print a JSON Schema (Draft 2020-12) describing commands and output.
@item bluetui describe
Print the machine-readable capability manifest.
@end table

@node Output and Errors
@chapter Output and Errors

Standard output carries data only; diagnostics and errors go to standard error.
Machine output is a single JSON document with the shape:

@example
@{ "metadata": @{ "tool", "version", "command", "timestamp", ... @},
  "data": ... @}
@end example

Timestamps are ISO 8601 UTC with a mandatory @code{Z} suffix.

On failure, machine mode prints a single-line error object to stderr:

@example
@{ "error": @{ "code", "exit_code", "message", "hint", "timestamp", ... @} @}
@end example

The @code{hint} is always a runnable command.  Exit codes follow the canonical
map: @code{0} success, @code{2} usage error, @code{3} not found,
@code{4} permission denied, @code{5} conflict, @code{10} bluetooth unavailable,
@code{11} rfkill blocked, @code{12} invalid configuration, @code{70} internal
error.

@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration

The configuration file is read from
@file{$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/bluetui/config.toml} (or the path given by
@option{--config-path}).  Keybindings, window layout/width, and the theme are
configurable.  Example:

@example
layout = "SpaceAround"
width = "auto"
toggle_scanning = "s"
esc_quit = false

[theme]
background = "navy"   # "navy" (Void Navy) or "terminal"
@end example

The @code{[theme]} section selects the canvas background and may override
individual palette tokens with @code{#RRGGBB} hex values.

@node Key Bindings
@chapter Key Bindings

Navigation uses Vim-style @kbd{h}/@kbd{j}/@kbd{k}/@kbd{l} and the arrow keys.
In text-entry fields (device rename, PIN, passkey), standard CUA editing keys
apply: @kbd{Ctrl-C} copy, @kbd{Ctrl-X} cut, @kbd{Ctrl-V} paste, @kbd{Ctrl-Z}
undo, and @kbd{Ctrl-S} save.

@node Attribution
@chapter Attribution

Maintained by Mohamed Hammad
(@email{Mohamed.Hammad@@SpacecraftSoftware.org}).
@command{bluetui} is a fork of @url{https://github.com/pythops/bluetui} by
Badr Badri; see @file{CREDITS.md}.

@bye
